In the simulation model that we built for
the flight overbooking problem,
we have been examining and interpreting
the frequency distribution chart
that the simulator produces for
the output variables.
We can use these charts to
estimate probabilities.
For example, we have estimated that
the probability that the number of bumped
passengers does not
exceed a certain value.
In this video we're going to
discuss three other charts
that the ASPC simulator produces.
The sensitivity chart,
the overlay chart and the trend chart.
To do this we are going to
introduce a new a problem.
We want to develop a simulation model for
a three year financial analysis
of total profit based on
the following data and information.
Sales volume in the first year is
estimated to be 100,000 units and
is projected to grow at a rate
that is normally distributed
with a mean of 7% per year and
a standard deviation of 4%.
The selling price is $10 and the price
increase is normally distributed with
a mean of $0.50 and
standard deviation of $0.05 each year.
Per-unit variable costs are $3 and
annual fixed costs are $200,000.
Per-unit costs are expected to increase
by an amount normally distributed
with a mean of 5% per year and
a standard deviation of 2%.
Fixed costs are expected to increase
following a normal distribution
with a mean of 10% per year and
a standard deviation of 3%.
We want to examine both
the annual profits and
net present value with
a discount rate of 7%.
Let's take a look at
a simulation model for
this problem, located in the Excel file,
financial analysis.
The workbook has five worksheets.
One with the simulation model, and
then one for each of the charts
that we're going to discuss.
We will however,
build the charts using the ASB.
We will work off
the Financial Analysis Model worksheet.
The first table in the mold has all
the assumptions associated with cells,
price and costs.
The second table contains
the simulation model.
All the values in
the first year are fixed.
We have a sales volume of 100,000 units,
a selling price of $10 and a revenue for
the first year of $1 million.
Since the unit cost is $3 and
there's a fixed cost of $200,000,
the total cost is $500,000.
This results in a profit of $500,000 for
the first year.
The uncertainty in this model
is in all the green cells.
There are four sources of uncertainty.
The sales volume, the price,
and the variable and fix costs.
The profit for each year and
the net present value or
NPV, of all profits
are the outputs of them all.
They are in cells B19, C19, D19, and B21.
Click on the analytics of a platform and
make sure that the number of
simulation trials is set to10,000.
Now run the simulation by clicking on
the play button in the solver options and
model specifications panel.
The first chart that we are going to
exam is a frequency chart for the MPV.
Double click on the cell B21 and
the chart pops up.
We're going to get rid
of one the markers and
set the remaining marker
to a value of 1.5 million.
We observe that the mall
estimates a 38.66%
chance that the MPV for this investment
will be at least 1.5 million.
Now, we want to know what
is driving this result.
The mole has A to certain cells from
the four sources of uncertainty.
These are the green cells in columns C and
D and rows 13 to 16.
So which of these sources of uncertainty
are most likely related to
the net present value problems?
To answer this question we
go to the sensitivity tie.
The chart shows the correlation of
uncertain variables with the output
in this case the net present value.
The chart shows the uncertain variables
by their correlation strength
the most correlated variable
is at the top of the chart.
And the least correlated
variable is at the bottom.
This chart is sometimes called
tornado chart because of its shape.
The blue bars indicate
positive correlation and
the red bars indicate
negative correlations.
The chart shows that cells C13 and
D13 are the most correlated with the NPV.
These cells contain the cell's volume for
years two and three.
What this tells us is that we should
try to obtain very good estimates for
these numbers because they are the ones
that have the most influence
on the net present value.
Which is the key output that is going
to drive the decision of whether or
not to invest in this opportunity.
At the same time, the chart also indicates
that having a precise number for
the selling price on year
three is not critical
since it has very small
correlation with the NPV.
Note how D14 appears at the bottom
of the sensitivity chart.
Close this window and
examine the annual profits.
In our model, the profit for
the first year is fixed.
We're assuming that either there is no
certainty or the certainty is negligible.
For the second and
third year, we would like to compare
the distribution of profits.
We can do this with an overlay chart.
Click on Charts,
go to the Multiple Simulation Results, and
choose Overlay Chart.
In the output section,
choose C19 and D19, and
click on the right arrow to move
them over to the right box.
Recall that C19 and D19 are the profits
for years two and three.
Click OK.
The distribution of profits
in year two is shown in orange and
clearly it has a smaller mean
than the distribution of profits in
year three, which is shown in blue.
The chart also shows that
the variance of profits in year
three is larger than
the variance in year two.
This is reasonable given that there is
more uncertainty in predicting
profits further in the future.
Similar information can be obtained
with trend charts of annual profits.
To build a trend chart, go to Charts,
Multiple Simulation Results and Trend.
This time, choose B19, C19, and D19,
and move them over to the right.
Click OK.
The trend chart shows the mean values
of each of these variables and
also the 75% and 95% band.
Since the probability for
the first year is fixed,
there are no bands around the mean value.
The bands get wider in the future
because there is more uncertainty.
The positive trend indicates that
the revenues are projected to
grow faster than the costs, resulting
in higher profits from year to year.
In this video we have seen
how charts are valuable
tools to gain insights
from simulation results.
The frequency chart helps us
answer probability questions
related to an output.
The sensitivity chart tells us which of
certain variables are most important.
The overlay and trend charts gives
us insights on output variables.
There are other charts that
we haven't covered here.
But I encourage you to explore further
either with the analytic solver
platform or using a similar software.
Because most likely you
will find a chart for
almost anything that you
would like to analyzed.